This is the README file for the CoppeTeX package.

Introduction
------------
This project provides a LaTeX document class suitable for writing
academic dissertations and thesis according to the format rules of the
Alberto Luiz Coimbra Institute for Graduate Studies and Research in
Engineering (Coppe/UFRJ).

The 'coppe' class contains a minimalist set of macro commands which
allows its users to create required textual elements according to the
Coppe/UFRJ dissertation/thesis guide. Among these elements, there are a
title page, cataloging details, native and foreign languages abstracts,
table of contents, and references.

Although following the Coppe/UFRJ guidelines, it can be easily ported to
standards of other institutions. This is possible due to users'
flexibility in defining textual elements required by their institutions.


When Conceived
--------------
It was conceived in January 2007, during the D.Sc. studies of Vicente Helano
and George Ainsworth at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro/COPPE.


How Much
--------
``This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 3 as
published by the Free Software Foundation.''


Archive Content
---------------
The development of this class follows the Comprehensive TeX Archive
Network (CTAN) standards, so it distributes a '.ins' file, '.dtx', and
README, to assist its users during installation and use.

You should have received the following files:
  1. COPYING: full text of the GNU General Policy License version 3.

  2. Makefile: used to extract the coppe class and build the
     documentation and a sample thesis.

  3. README: describe the CoppeTeX package.

  4. coppe-unsrt.bst: unsorted BibTeX style.

  5. coppe.bib: contains the references cited in the documentation.

  6. coppe.dtx: main source file; contains the documentation, a sample
     thesis and Makeindex styles.

  7. coppe.ins: used to strip out the coppe document class from `coppe.dtx'.


Installing
----------
To install CoppeTeX it is required to have any LaTeX distribution along
with the packages: doc, docstrip, ifthen, geometry, inputenc and
fontenc. The babel package is needed only to compile the sample thesis.

There is a Makefile to properly extract the coppe class and build its
documentation and examples. If you have the make utility, try `make
help' and see what happens. Type `make class' to extract the class and
its auxiliary files. The code for the class is contained in the file
`coppe.cls'. To get the documentation, type `make doc'. This will
generate the file `coppe.dvi'. The sample thesis is compiled by running
`make example'.

If you don't have any make utility, run `latex coppe.ins' to extract the
class together with its auxiliary files. The documentation is obtained
by running `latex coppe.dtx'. The example file has to be compiled by
`latex' and, if you want to display lists of symbols or abbreviations,
post-processed with Makeindex. Use the given Makeindex styles
(coppe-symbl.ist and coppe-abbrev.ist) to generate the lists of symbols
and abbreviations. These lists must be written to `example.syx' and
`example.abx', respectively.


Contact
-------
Please, send any comments, suggestions, questions and bugs to:
  George Ainsworth <goajunior at users.sourceforge.net>.


Have a good thesis,
  CoppeTeX team.
  http://sourceforge.net/projects/coppe

                                             Rio de Janeiro, November 21, 2007.
